Gipat Group's opened EI-editor-utility license.
ver. 1.0

The terms of this license are identical to those of “GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE v 2.1” (the unofficial Russian translation and the original English text of which are set out below in this document) with the following exceptions:

 1. Some of the data formats with which the Program interacts may be developed by Nival Interactive or other copyright holders. The terms of use of these data formats are determined solely by their respective owners and are NOT determined by this license. The possibilities for modifying these data formats provided by the Program may be used exclusively to develop modifications for the game "Cursed Lands" (c) Nival Interactive, and only in accordance with the terms of the user agreement for this game. The Licensee undertakes not to use the capabilities of this Program for commercial purposes without the consent of the Gipat Group and Nival Interactive. "For commercial purposes" means to obtain monetary or other material benefit in any form.

 2. The source code of the Program, designed to work with data formats developed by Nival Interactive, is distributed under the same terms of this license, which apply to the rest of the code of the Program. At the same time, the use of these parts of the code to work with these data formats is allowed solely for the purpose of developing modifications for the game "Cursed Lands" (c) Nival Interactive, and only in accordance with the terms of the user agreement for this game. Licensee undertakes not to use these parts of the Program code for commercial purposes without the consent of Gipat Group and Nival Interactive. If these parts of the code are modified so that the data formats used by them cannot be regarded as data formats developed by Nival Interactive (for example, if you remake a class that worked with the * .mob format into a class that works with a completely different format of another game) - then this the restriction for this part of the code does not apply since this modified code is not capable of working with data formats developed by Nival Interactive.

 3. In the binary distribution kit of the Program, in the archive with the source texts, in the svn repository or in other places where the parts of the program are stored - object files and / or source texts that are distributed under other conditions may be included. The terms of this license do not apply to these files. These files are included there for the purpose of maintaining the functionality and the possibility of self-assembly of the Program by the Licensee, as required by the LGPL license. All these files (with some restrictions) are allowed to publicly distribute them by their authors.

 4. Object files and source codes required to build the Program from source codes, but which are part of the development environment and / or the compiler, are not included in the Program and are not distributed with it - this is contrary to the LGPL license, but this license as a whole is a modification of the license The LGPL and this clause take precedence over any conflicting provisions of the original LGPL. The purpose of this clause is not to limit the Licensee's capabilities in assembling the Program. The presence of this clause is due to the fact that the Program may require for its assembly a proprietary development environment and / or a compiler - many of whose components, of course, the authors do not have the right to include in the distribution of the Program.

 5. The license for any code distributed under this license may be changed to the LGPL v2.1 license in all cases except when this code falls under the restrictions of clause 2 of this license. If this code is changed and the restrictions of clause # 2 cease to apply to it, the license can also be changed to LGPL v2.1 as well as to the rest of the code.

Below is an unofficial translation of the LGPL license into Russian.

Russian translation of the Lesser General Public License.

The author of the translation is Elena Tyapkina [tiapkina@hotmail.com], 09-Aug-2001.

This is an unofficial translation of the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) into Russian. It was not published by the Free Software Foundation, and does not legally state the distribution terms for software that uses the LGPL - only the original English text of the LGPL does that. However, we hope that this translation will help Russian speakers understand the LGPL better.

This translation of the GNU Lesser General Public License into Russian is not official. It is not published by the Free Software Foundation and does not set forth legally binding terms for distributing software that is distributed under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License. The legally binding terms are set forth exclusively in the authentic text of the GNU Lesser General Public License in English. I hope this translation will help Russian speaking language users can better understand the content of the GNU Lesser General Public License.

You can read the LGPL text in English here http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA

Everyone has the right to copy and distribute copies of this License without changing its text.

[This version is the first published version of the GNU Lesser General Public License and replaces the GNU General Public License for Libraries, version 2. As such, this version is numbered 2.1.]

Preamble

Most software licenses take away your right to redistribute and modify the software. In contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are designed to guarantee you the right to share and modify free software, i.e. ensure its free use by all users. This Lesser General Public License applies to special software (usually libraries) owned by the Free Software Foundation or others who choose to use this License. You can also use this License, however, we recommend that you analyze in each case which of the two licenses: this License or the ordinary General Public License to apply to the software, taking into account the explanations below.

When we talk about free software, we mean freedom, not gratuitousness. The GNU General Public Licenses are designed to give you the right to distribute copies of free software (and be remunerated if you want to), to make sure you get the source code of the software or to get it if you want to, to make it possible to make changes to the software and use portions of it. in the new free software, and to inform you of the above rights granted to you.

To protect your rights, we introduce a number of restrictions so that those who distribute libraries (distributors, sales agents, etc.) do not have the opportunity to deprive you of these rights or contact you with a proposal to waive these rights. These restrictions impose certain responsibilities on you if you redistribute copies of the library or modify the library.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library for a fee or for free, you must transfer to the new owners in full all the rights that we have transferred to you. It is your responsibility to ensure that new owners of the library receive or can obtain the source code. If you link other software with a library, you must provide the new owners of the library with all the files for that software in object code so that new owners of the library can link it again with the object files after making changes to the library and recompiling it. It is also your responsibility to familiarize them with the terms of this License.

To protect your rights, we: (1) reserve the copyright for the library and (2) we invite you to use this License, under which you may reproduce, distribute and / or modify the library.

To protect the rights of those who distribute the libraries, we advise that no guarantees of any kind are provided for this free library. Those who purchased the library, with changes made to it by third parties, should be aware that they are not receiving the original version, due to which the author of the original version is not responsible for errors made by third parties when making changes.

Finally, software ceases to be free if a person becomes the owner of exclusive rights to it. It is unacceptable for any commercial organization to be able to restrict the rights of other users of free software by concluding a license agreement with the copyright holder containing restrictive conditions. As such, we require that the terms of any license agreement for the library or its version comply with the terms of free use of the library set forth in this License.

Most of the GNU software, including some libraries, is under the general GNU General Public License. This GNU Lesser General Public License applies to individual libraries and is significantly different from the General Public License. This License applies to individual libraries in order to provide the ability to link these libraries with "unrelated" free "software.

Under copyright law, linking a program to a library, whether statically linked or using a shared library, results in a collaborative work that is derived from the original library. Under the ordinary General Public License, such linking is permitted only if the referenced collaborative work is free software. The terms of the Lesser General Public License that govern linking the library with other programs are more flexible.

We have called this General Public License the Limited Use License because it provides the user with limited options to defend his freedom over the ordinary General Public License, and also limits the advantages of free software authors over competing "non-free" software. For these reasons, most libraries are subject to the ordinary General Public License. However, under certain circumstances it is more beneficial to use the Limited Use License.

For example, in some cases, for a library to be used as an unofficial standard, it needs to be used as widely as possible. To do this, users must be allowed to use the library with nonfree software. A more common case is when a free library performs the same functions as the widely used "nonfree" libraries. In this case, it is inappropriate to restrict the use of the free library only in conjunction with free software, therefore we apply the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, the ability to use a particular library with nonfree software allows more users to use more free software. For example, the ability to use the GNU C Library with nonfree software allows many users to fully utilize the GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU / Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License grants users limited options to protect their freedom, it grants the user of a program associated with the Library to freely run that program using a modified version of the Library.

The following are conditions for reproduction, distribution and modification. Note the difference between a work that is derived from a library and a work that uses a library. In the first case, the work includes a part of the code extracted from the library, in the second case, the work must be linked to the library in order to be launched.

Conditions for reproduction, distribution and modification

0. The terms of this License apply to a library or any other program that, in accordance with the notice placed in the text of the program by the copyright holder, may be distributed in accordance with the terms of this Lesser General Public License (hereinafter referred to as the "License"). Each purchaser of a copy of the program is hereinafter referred to as the "Licensee".

The term "Library" in this License means a collection of software functions and / or data prepared in such a way that they are conveniently linked with applications that use some of these functions or data to create executable files.

The term "Library" hereinafter refers to any library or work that is distributed under the terms of this License. The term "work derived from the Library" means the Library or any other derivative work in accordance with copyright law, i.e. a work that includes the Library or a part of it, both with and without changes made to its text and / or translated into another language (Hereinafter, translation in the broadest sense of this term is included in the concept of "modification").

The "original text" of a work is understood to be the form of the work that is most convenient for making changes. The complete source code of a library is understood as the source code of all modules that make up the library, as well as all files associated with the interface description, and scripts designed to control the compilation and installation of the library.

This License does not apply to the exercise of rights other than the reproduction, distribution and modification of the Library. There are no restrictions on the launch of a program using the Library. License terms apply to output from such a program only if their content constitutes a work derived from the Library (regardless of whether the Library was used as a tool to create that work). It depends on what functions are performed by the Library and the program using the Library.

1. The licensee has the right to make and distribute copies of the full source text of the Library in the form in which he received it, without making changes to it in any medium, subject to the following conditions: each copy bears the copyright protection mark and a notice of no guarantees; all notices relating to this License and the absence of warranties have been retained; a copy of this License is distributed along with a copy of the Library.

The Licensee has the right to charge a fee for the transfer of a copy of the Library, and also has the right to provide services for warranty support of the Library for a fee.

2. The Licensee has the right to modify his copy or copies of the Library in whole or in any part of it. These actions of the Licensee entail the creation of a work derived from the Library. The Licensee has the right to make and distribute copies of such a work, derived from the Library, or the actual changes in accordance with clause 1 of this License, subject to the following conditions:

   a) the derivative work must be a library;

   b) the files modified by the Licensee must contain appropriate notices that they have been changed, as well as the date the changes were made;

   c) The Licensee is obliged to transfer the rights to use this work to third parties under the terms of this License, and the Licensee is not entitled to demand payment of any license fees. The work is licensed as a whole;

   d) if the interaction of the modified Library and the application is carried out not due to the transfer of an argument when calling the facilities of the modified Library, but due to the fact that the facilities in the modified Library refer to a function or data table that is provided by the application using the specified means, in this case the Licensee must in good faith attach efforts to ensure that the Library tools work and perform that part of their task that is significant if the application does not provide the specified function or data table.

(For example, a library function that calculates a square root is completely independent of the application by its purpose. Thus, in accordance with subparagraph "d" of paragraph 2, any function that an application provides or a table used by this function must be optional (optional) : If the application does not provide a function or table, the square root function should calculate the square root anyway).

The above terms apply to the modified work derived from the Library as a whole. In the event that certain parts of this work are not derived from the Library, are the result of creative activity and can be used as an independent work, the Licensee has the right to distribute such work separately under different licensing conditions. If the Licensee distributes the above parts as part of a work derived from the Library, then the terms of this License apply to the work as a whole, and the rights acquired by the sub-licensees under the License are transferred to them in relation to the entire work, including all of its parts, regardless of whether who are their authors.

The purpose of this clause is not to claim or dispute rights in a work created exclusively by Licensee. The purpose of this clause is to provide for the right to control the distribution of works derived from the Library and composite works derived from the Library.

Placing a work that is not derived from the Library on the same storage device or media with the Library or a work derived from the Library does not extend the terms of this License to such work.

3. Licensee may, at his option, apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a specific copy of the Library. To do this, Licensee must, in the appropriate notices in this copy, replace references to this License with references to version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License (or, if Licensee wishes, to a later published version of the ordinary General Public License). You should not make any other changes to the text of the notices.

Substitution of one license for another in respect of a specific copy of the Library is final and will apply to all subsequent copies of that copy of the Library and works derived from this copy of the Library, the usual GNU General Public License.

It is advisable to use this opportunity when the Licensee intends to copy part of the source text of the Library into a program that is not a library.

4. The Licensee has the right to reproduce and distribute copies of the Library, its parts or a work, which in accordance with clause 2 of this License is derived from the Library, in the form of object code or in executable form in accordance with the terms of clauses 1 and 2 of this License. The copy must be accompanied by the corresponding complete source text in machine-readable form, which must be distributed in accordance with the terms of clauses 1 and 2 of this License on a medium normally used to transfer the software.

In the event that a work in the form of an object code is distributed by providing the ability to make a copy of the work from a specific location, providing an equivalent opportunity to make a copy of the original text from the same place satisfies the requirements for distributing the original text, even if third parties are not obliged to copy the original text along with the object code. work code.

5. A "work using the Library" means a program that does not contain code derived from any part of the Library, but is intended to work with the Library when compiled with it or linked to it. In isolation, such work is not a derivative work of the Library and is not covered by this License.

However, linking a "work using the Library" to the Library does not create a "work using the Library" but an executable file that is derived from the Library by virtue of the fact that it contains parts of the Library. Such an executable file is subject to this License. The distribution procedure for such executable files is determined in clause 6 of this License.

In the event that a "work using the Library" uses data from the header file (variable function declaration file) that is part of the Library, the object code of this work may be a work derived from the Library, even if the source code is not a work derived from the Library. This provision is especially important in the case when the work can be linked without the Library or when the work itself is a library, however, the cases when this provision is true are not clearly defined by law.

If the object file specified in the previous paragraph uses only numeric parameters, layout data and accessors, and small macros and small linear functions (no more than ten lines), then the use of the object file is unlimited, regardless of whether whether this object file is legally derived from the Library or not. (The terms of clause 6 of this License apply to executable files that contain this object code, as well as parts of the Library code).

In all other cases, if the work is derived from the Library, the Licensee may distribute the object code of that work in accordance with clause 6 of this License. Any executable file containing this work is also subject to clause 6 of this License, regardless of whether the executable file is linked directly to the Library by the linker.

6. As an exception to the provisions of the preceding clauses of this License, the Licensee may combine or link the Work using the Library with the Library, resulting in a work containing portions of the Library. The licensee has the right to distribute such a work under any conditions, while the user must retain the right to make changes to the work in order to adapt it for his own needs, as well as the right to restore the structural diagram of the work algorithm from the source texts of the work to debug the changes made.

On each copy of such a work, Licensee must place a notice indicating that the work is using the Library, which is being distributed, modified and used in accordance with this License. The Licensee is also required to attach a copy of this License to each copy of the work. If a copyright mark is displayed on the display during the performance of the work, the Licensee must include the copyright mark for the Library, as well as links by which the user can view a copy of this License. The licensee must also fulfill one of the following conditions:

   a) the copy must be accompanied by the corresponding complete source text of the Library in machine-readable form, including all changes that were used in the work (these changes must be distributed in accordance with clauses 1 and 2 of this License). In that case, if the work is an executable file associated with the Library, the copy must also be accompanied in machine-readable form by the complete source and / or object code of the Work that the Library uses, so that the user can modify the Library and then link it again with the executable file, as a result which will create a modified executable file containing the modified Library (It is assumed that a user who makes changes to the content of the description file will not always be able to recompile the application so that the modified descriptions are used);

   b) a suitable shared library mechanism must be used to link to the Library. A shared library mechanism is considered suitable if it: 1) during runtime uses a copy of the library that is already on the user's computer system, rather than copying library functions into the executable, and 2) works properly with a modified version of the library installed by the user when the condition of compatibility between the interfaces of the modified version and the version of the library that was used to create the work containing parts of the Library;

   c) the copy must be accompanied by an offer in writing, valid for three years from the date of its execution, to transfer to the same user for a fee not exceeding the cost of the actual transfer, the materials specified in subparagraph "a" of paragraph 6;

   d) if the distribution of a copy of the work is carried out by providing access for copying it from a specified place, such distribution must be accompanied by an offer of equivalent access for copying from the same place the materials specified in subparagraph "a" of paragraph 6;

   e) make sure that the user has already received a copy of the materials specified in subparagraph "a" of paragraph 6, or that the Licensee has already sent the user a copy of these materials.

If the Work using the Library is in executable form, it must include all data and software utilities necessary to reproduce an executable file from it. However, as a special exception, the redistributable material may not include what is normally distributed (in source or binary form) with the main components (compiler, kernel, etc.) of the operating system on which the executable is running, with the exception of cases where the executable file is accompanied by such a component.

In some cases, the requirement in the previous paragraph may conflict with the restrictive license terms for "non-free" libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system. In the presence of such contradictions, the Licensee is not entitled to use both the specified "non-free" libraries and the Library in the executable file distributed by the Licensee.

7. The Licensee has the right to place in a single library the library tools, which are a Work derived from the Library, together with the tools of other libraries that are not covered by this License. The Licensee has the right to distribute such a single library, provided that the separate distribution of the Work derived from the Library and the tools of other libraries is permitted in accordance with the licenses of other libraries, and the Licensee must fulfill the following conditions:

   a) attach to a single library a copy of the same Work, derived from the Library, unrelated to the means of other libraries. Such copy must be distributed in accordance with the terms of the preceding clauses of this License;

   b) attach to the unified library a clearly visible notice indicating that part of the unified library is a Work derived from the Library and explaining where an attached copy of the same work unrelated to other libraries can be found.

8. The Licensee may reproduce, modify, distribute, link the Library with the software or transfer the rights to use the Library only under the terms of this License. Any reproduction, modification, distribution, linking with the software or otherwise transferring rights is void and will automatically terminate this License and terminate all of the Licensee's rights granted to him by this License. At the same time, the rights of third parties to whom the Licensee has transferred copies of the Library or rights to it in accordance with this License shall remain in effect provided they fully comply with this License.

9. Licensee is not required to accede to this License as he has not signed it. However, only this License grants the right to distribute or modify the Library or works derived from the Library. Such actions violate applicable law if they are not carried out in accordance with this License. If The Licensee has made changes or distributed copies of the Library or a work derived from the Library, the Licensee has thereby confirmed his adherence to this License as a whole, including the terms governing the reproduction, distribution or modification of the Library or a work derived from the Library.

10. When distributing copies of the Library or a work derived from the Library, the original licensor automatically transfers to the acquirer of such copy the right to reproduce, distribute, link with the software, and modify the Library in accordance with the terms of this License. The licensee does not have the right to restrict in any way the exercise by the acquirers of the rights obtained by them. The Licensee is not responsible for non-compliance with the terms of this License by third parties.

11. The Licensee is not released from the fulfillment of obligations in accordance with this License if, as a result of a court decision or a statement of infringement of exclusive rights or in connection with the occurrence of other circumstances not directly related to the infringement of exclusive rights, the Licensee on the basis of a court decision, contract or otherwise entrusted with obligations that contradict the terms of this License. In this case, the Licensee is not entitled to distribute copies of the Library if he cannot simultaneously fulfill the terms of this License and the obligations imposed on him in the above way. For example, if under the terms of the license agreement the sub-licensees cannot be granted the right to distribute copies of the Library for free, which they acquired directly or through third parties from the Licensee, then the Licensee must refuse to distribute copies of the Library.

If any provision of this clause is found to be invalid or inapplicable upon the occurrence of specific circumstances, this clause shall apply except for such provision. This clause applies as a whole upon the termination of the above circumstances or their absence.

The purpose of this clause is not to compel the Licensee to infringe a patent or claim other proprietary rights, or to challenge the validity of such a claim. The sole purpose of this clause is to protect the integrity of the free software distribution system, which is provided through public licensing. Many people have contributed generously to the large amount of software that is distributed through this system in the hope of long-term and consistent use. The licensee has no right to compel the author to distribute the software through this system. The right to choose the software distribution system belongs exclusively to its author.

This clause is intended to clearly define the objectives that all other provisions of this License pursue.

12. In the event that the distribution and / or use of the Library in individual states is limited by agreements in the field of patent or copyright, the original copyright holder distributing the Library under the terms of this License has the right to restrict the distribution area of ??the Library, indicating only those states on the territory of which distribution is allowed Libraries are not limited by such agreements. In this case, such an indication in relation to the territories of certain states is recognized as one of the conditions of this License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and / or new versions of this Lesser General Public License. Such versions can be supplemented by various norms governing legal relations that arose after the publication of previous versions, but they will retain the basic principles enshrined in this version.

Each version is assigned its own number. If it is indicated that the Library is distributed according to a specific version, i.e. specified by its number, or any later version of this License, Licensee may accede to any of these versions of the License published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library does not contain such an indication of the version number of the License, Licensee may adhere to any version of the License ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

14. If the Licensee intends to include part of the Library in other free software, which is distributed under conditions incompatible with the terms of this License, he should seek written permission from the author of the software. Permission for software owned by the Free Software Foundation must be sought from the Free Software Foundation. In some cases, the Free Software Foundation makes exceptions. The Free Software Foundation will be guided in its decision by two aims: to maintain free status for any work derived from the Free Software Foundation, and to ensure the widest possible sharing of software.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THIS LIBRARY IS DISTRIBUTED FREE OF CHARGE, NO WARRANTIES ARE PROVIDED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. THIS LIBRARY IS PROVIDED "AS IS". Unless otherwise specified in writing, the author and / or other right holder does not assume any warranty obligations, both expressly pronounced and implied, with respect to the library, including the implied guarantee of the commodity state when selling and suitability for use for specific purposes. AND ALSO ANY OTHER WARRANTIES. ALL RISKS RELATING TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY ARE ASSOCIATED WITH THE LICENSEE. IF THE LIBRARY IS DISCOVERED A DEFICIENCY, ALL COSTS RELATED TO MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR CORRECTION OF THE LIBRARY ARE BEARED BY THE LICENSEE.

16. Unless otherwise provided by the right or not agreed by the parties in the contract in writing, the author and / or other copyright holder, which modifies and / or distributes the library under the terms of this License, is not responsible to the licensee for losses, including general, real, FOREIGN AND CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOSS OR DISTORTION OF INFORMATION, DAMAGES INCLUDED BY THE LICENSEE OR THIRD PARTIES, INABILITY TO OPERATE THE LIBRARY WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE). THE AUTHOR AND / OR ANOTHER RIGHT HOLDER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS CLAUSE SHALL NOT BE LIABLE EVEN IF THEY WERE WARNED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

How to apply the terms of the Lesser General Public License to the Library you create.

If you have created a new library and you want it to bring the greatest benefit to society, we recommend that you make it free software when everyone can redistribute it and make changes to it. This goal will be achieved if the library is distributed under the terms of this License or the ordinary General Public License.

The following notice must be included in the library for the terms of this License to apply to the library. It would be most appropriate to place it at the beginning of the source text of each file to make it as clear as possible that no warranty is provided for this library. Each file must in any case contain a copyright mark and an explanation, where you can see the full text of the notice.

[one line with the name of the Library and a brief description of its purpose]

© name (title) of the author or other copyright holder, the year of the first publication of the library.

This library is free software. You may redistribute it and / or modify it under the terms of version 2.1 or, at your option, under the terms of the later version of the GNU Lesser General Public License published by the Free Software Foundation.

We distribute this library in the hope that it will be useful to you, but DO NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY FOR IT, including WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. For more information, see the GNU Lesser General Public License.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library. If you have not received it, please report it to the Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

Also indicate how you can be contacted by email or post.

If you created a library in the course of your official duties or the work assignment of an employer, you should obtain from him, if necessary, a written waiver of exclusive rights to use the library. You can use the following text as an example by replacing the corresponding names and titles:

ZAO "ABV" hereby disclaims all exclusive rights to use the computer program "Gnomovision", which is a library authored by Aleksey Petrovich Ivanov, and transfers all exclusive rights to use this program to its author, Aleksey Petrovich Ivanov.

Signature of the head of the organization, seal, January 1, 2001

[Surname, Name, Patronymic], General Director


The following is the original text of the LGPL license in English:

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts 
as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, 
hence the version number 2.1.]

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more peopleto use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

		  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whosepermissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/orsource code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE,
THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE
EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS 
AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO
THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS
WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, 
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR
AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR
ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR
LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE
OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN
IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as pu	blished by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

